[MUSIC]
Currently, the amount of data in the
digital universe doubles every two years.
Think about how much data you have
at your fingertips right now,
including the 500 million tweets
people send every single day,
the 100 hours of video uploaded
to YouTube every minute.
The percentage of mobile things
in the Internet of things will be
over 75% by 2020,
while new sources of data like sensors,
actuators, and intelligent
devices will continually emerge.
Data and analytic skills enable
organizations to use all of these types
of data to make informed decisions.
Hello, I'm Mike Fenlon, and I serve
as the global talent leader for PwC.
A majority of business and
technology executives agree that one
of the major challenges we all face
is turning such an overwhelming
amount of data into real insight.
And a big reason for this is the skills
gap between what businesses need and
what job seekers and those who want
to advance their careers possess.
As the role of data in making
decisions in business grows,
new jobs are being created that
demand new sets of skills.
And the skills that we all took for
granted as basic for
career advancement are changing.
Organizations around the world need
people to be able to use data and
apply analytics, and not just for
data and analytics positions.
These are becoming key skills for many,
and perhaps all types of jobs and
positions.
I want to give you a little
bit of background on why this
specialization is so important.
At PwC,
data is at the heart of everything we do.
The real power of data lies in
creating actionable insights and
in how we apply these insights
to the strategic choices
we make in organizations,
as well as how we operate.
At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in
society and solve important problems,
especially the challenges that arise
as our world undergoes rapid and
dramatic change.
And we've identified five megatrends that
are impacting the global marketplace and
creating new challenges and opportunities.
One is urbanization as we face a huge
shift of people moving from rural and
suburban locations into
cities around the world.
Another is the accelerating
rate of population growth.
Then there's climate change and
the skyrocketing demand for
more natural resources.
For example, over the next 30 years,
we'll need 50% more energy,
40% more water, and 35% more food.
There are global shifts in economic and
political power.
And finally, of course, technology is
exploding, and the digital data each
of us has at our fingertips is changing
every business and organization.
More powerful sources of data and
analytic tools give us the ability to
create the insights that will allow
us to solve the new challenges and
opportunities we will face today and
tomorrow.
That's why organizations need people with
the right skills to take the overwhelming
amount of data, analyze it, visualize it,
and use it to generate new insights.
Organizations have collected and
analyzed data for decades.
But the role of data and analytics and the
skills required to make the most of them
have become progressively more important.
We've seen new roles being created in
many different types of organizations,
such as data scientist and
chief data officer positions.
But it's not just new roles that
require data and analytics skills.
As traditional data and
analytics roles evolve, the skills and
experience needed to fill
them are evolving quickly.
And 57% of data and analytics
recruiters say it is difficult to
find people with
the necessary qualifications.
This course will provide an introduction
to basic skills in data analysis,
how to visualize and
communicate what data tells us, and
how to crystallize key insights
with simplicity and clarity.
These skills are relevant for
all of us and
can serve as an important differentiator
at any stage of your career.
While we're focused on building some
important technical skills in this course,
it's also important to adopt a holistic
mindset in how you develop yourself.
In fact, the ability to translate data
into insight and communicate effectively
and influence others depends on
a broader set of capabilities, as well.
For example, at PwC our people
use the PwC Professional,
our global career progression framework
that, in addition to technical skills like
data analysis, includes broader
business acumen, relationship skills,
global acumen, and the skills required
to work across cultures and differences,
whole leadership, designed to develop
skills needed to lead at all levels.
Now, this broad base will equip you
to not only solve challenges, but
also to frame issues in
a broader context so
you can ask the right questions, the ones
that lead to root causes and solutions.
In this specialization,
you'll learn from our PwC professionals
about how to use data and
analytics to solve important problems.
As we close, I'm going to ask you
to think about one word, potential.
Let it sink in.
It's a powerful word.
Have you ever known someone who has
not fulfilled his or her potential?
As Erik Brynjolfsson and
Andrew McAfee put in their book The Second
Machine Age, acquiring an education
is the best way to not be left
behind as technology races ahead.
By taking responsibility for your own
development, by pushing yourself and
demonstrating the perseverance to complete
this course and advance your development,
you're positioning yourself to not only
be relevant in a rapidly changing world,
but to be on the path to fulfilling
your potential in your career.
So I urge you to take responsibility for
advancing your own development and
start to build a foundation of skills
that will help enable you to fulfill your
own potential.
What problems will data and
analytic skills help
you solve while advancing your own career?
[MUSIC]